TinyWiki:  a user-editable online area: a knock off of Ward Cunningham's WikiWiki, written in under a hundred lines of Perl.

This is the Wiki that formerly powered perldesignpatterns dot com before the site was let go and porn site spammers bought it.  More documentation and mark-up rules (which closely follow the original WikiWiki) in theTinyWiki page.

To create a new page, put in a plain-text StudleyCaps word and it will become a link.  Click on the new link and define the new page. Links to existing pages are made by the mere mention of their StudleyCaps name.

Each script is capable of spitting out its own source code. Think of it as human-assisted-propagation.  Append ?self to the base URL.

There is currently no HTML filtering, so users could create obnoxious Java Script etc.  Don't put this on the same domain that issues cookies that could be exposed.

Many features are implemented by use of additional scripts that may 'require' wiki.cgi.  wiki.cgi works as a stand-alone script or as a module usable by other cgi scripts.

Features:

Text Formatting

    Indented texts formatting is preserved.
    Many text parsing rules are disabled for indented (preformatted) text blocks to allow code to display unmolested.
    Asterisk starting lines get turned into bullet points.
    Indented asterisks are second level bullet points.
    Four dashes on the start of a line creates a horizontal rule.
    ISBN is munged into a link to Barnes & Nobles.
    Foo::Bar style Perl module names are munged into links to CPAN.
    Double-underscores around text underlines it.
    Double-slashes around text italicizes it.
    Double-vertical-bars around text bolds it.
    UUencoded data pasted into a page is turned into a link to image.cgi. image.cgi extracts it and presents it as an image.
    Square brackets around text moves it to the end of the page as a footnote and replaces it with a link to the anchor.
    WikiWords can be qualified to a specific Wiki, eg Wiki:WikiSquatting - see Inter Map 
    Contents of <% .. %> blocks get executed as Perl in a semi-restricted environment (user beware!), with some functions defined for 'use'ing and writing to other pages in restricted ways

Auxillary Scripts

    Most auxillary scripts are linked to from the page footer, Wiki Footer
    assemble.cgi: Words can be expanded in-line for a printable (eg) version:
    recent.cgi: Recently changed pages
    spell.cgi: Spell checking. Currently doesn't handle plurals, as plurals aren't in /usr/share/dict/words. Have to work around that.
    orphans.cgi: All words sorted by number of references from 0:
    metric.cgi: Trust metrics.
    everything.cgi: Complete list of keywords is at
    diff.cgi: View previous revisions of a page
    podparser.pl: Primarily for command line use. Splits out Perl Doc from the Wiki source files starting with a root page, like assemble.cgi
    image.cgi: decodes UUencoded blocks of image data in a page and displays it with the correct MIME header - linked to by wiki.cgi using img src
    intermap.cgi: translates Wiki:WikiSquatting style links to a real URL and redirects to it
    fogindex.cgi: computes readability indexes on pages using Lingua::EN::Fathom and generates a report - not suitable for online use - too CPU intensive 

Active Wiki Pages Features

    Wiki Word munged into a Google search link via Active Wiki Pages code in Wiki Footer
    See Other Wiki links to WikiWiki:WikiWiki when a page with the same name exists there
    Pages Linking Here modifies pages to link back to any page linking to it 

Misc

    All Wiki-related scripts display their source when passed the ?self CGI argument.
    Active Wiki Pages - pages may contain embedded Perl that runs on the server when the page is displayed - most new features will be implemented in terms of this
    Token and state based grammar using Perl's m/\G/g trick for cleanliness and easy addition of new rules. 

Thanks To

Tiny Wiki uses code from Randal Schwartz in fogindex.cgi, code from Doug Miles and from Moogle Stuffy Software in diff.cgi, with bug fixes and contributions in wiki.cgi from Alex Schroeder and other people whose names I hope I remember soon... oops.

Copyright (c) Scott Walters, scott@illogics.org, and others as noted. Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.1 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation. A copy of the license is available at www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.txt. By posting to this site, you agree to place all submitted content under the Free Documentation License.

